# Licensing

libsndfile is released under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License, of which there are two versions; [version
2.1](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html) and
[version 3](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html). To maximise the
compatibility of libsndfile, the user may choose to use libsndfile under
either of the above two licenses. You can also read a simple explanation
of the ideas behind the GPL and the LGPL
[here](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/copyleft.html).

You can use libsndfile with [Free Software](http://www.gnu.org/), [Open
Source](http://www.opensource.org/), proprietary, shareware or other
closed source applications as long as libsndfile is used as a
dynamically loaded library and you abide by a small number of other
conditions (read the LGPL for more info). With applications released
under the GNU GPL you can also use libsndfile statically linked to your
application.

I would like to see libsndfile used as widely as possible but I would
prefer it if you released software that uses libsndfile as [Free
Software](http://www.gnu.org/) or [Open
Source](http://www.opensource.org/). However, if you put in a great deal
of effort building a significant application which simply uses
libsndfile for file I/O, then I have no problem with you releasing that
as closed source and charging as much money as you want for it as long
as you abide by [the license](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html).
